(upbeat music)
Let's talk real quick about setup
and the tools that we need.
You can skip this entire video,
if you know the three things.
First, you know which browser you like to use,
as well as how to open the dev tools,
and how to quickly access them.
Two, you already have Node JS and NPM installed.
And three, you have an editor that you like,
like VS code, something like that.
So, if you already have those things in place,
and you're comfortable with them,
skip this video, on to the next one.
I'm just going to be introducing all three of those.
Talking about my own choices behind them.
Now that's just us, let's get into browser.
You can use Firefox, you can use Chrome.
You can actually use any browser you like for this
because we're just writing JavaScript.
The important thing here,
is that we're going to use a solid set of developer tools.
Now, Firefox and Chrome
both have very, very good developer tools.
I personally am going to be using
probably Chrome throughout the most of this,
but even Firefox,
some of the dev tools specifically around layout and CSS
are right now as time of recording even better
than some of the Chrome's out there.
Things you need to know how to do,
is how to open this dev tools here.
You can just right click, inspect element.
That's going to show you our DOM.
We're going to learn what the DOM is in a couple of videos.
And you click over to the console.
It's worth learning the shortcuts right now,
to quickly open inspect element
and the console really quickly.
That way, if you have it closed,
you can just quickly,
like I just hit command+shift+C on a Mac,
and I'm opening the inspect element immediately.
And then if I also hit option+command+J,
it would just immediately open the console.
Rather than having to do this whole song and dance.
Makes me cringe you have to right click, inspect,
wait for it to pop up, then click on the console tab.
You're gonna retire early if you learn how those shortcuts.
How do you know those shortcuts?
In Chrome, you go to view, developer
and then you see the shortcuts here,
this little funny one is option
'cause you have the option to take the stairs.
It's an escalator.
This is command and then those are letters.
Hopefully, you know, those are.
In Firefox, you click on the little burger here.
You go to web developer.
And then you can click on inspector or web console.
Those are the two that we specifically want.
Again, memorize those.
I'm using it right here
that you might wonder,
"Why does it look a little bit different?"
This is Firefox Developer Edition,
it's going to get you the latest and greatest features
that come to both the dev tools as well as to the browser.
So that's the browser.
Next up, we need Node JS.
And in order to install Node JS,
you just go to www.nodejs.org and download.
I recommend the current version.
Don't pay any attention to these numbers here,
'cause they will change
depending on when you taking this course.
The stuff that we're covering here
is not really dependent on what version you have.
Because a lot of the tooling that we're using,
we're not actually gonna be
writing Node JS based websites in this course.
But a lot of the tooling,
a lot of the module bundling,
a lot of the code formatting,
all of that stuff uses Node JS under the hood.
So we need to have that installed
before we go ahead and do it.
How do you how do you know if you've installed it or not?
Well, first, you can just try and install it again
and it will update you to the latest version.
You can go ahead and do that.
And then second, you can just open up a terminal window.
I recommend on on Mac you can use, under your applications,
you see there's a utilities folder.
There's this little, right here, this terminal icon
that we have right here.
That's the built in one, I use one called Hyper.
You can use the one that's built into VS Code,
you can use iTerm,
they're all the same terminal at the end of the day.
And if you want to know what theme I'm using,
you can go to www.wesbos.com/uses,
And that will give you links
to all of the different themes and whatnot that I'm using.
How do you know?
Once you have a terminal open,
you can go ahead and just type node dash v
and that will tell you which version you have.
See, I have 10.10.10.
I probably could go ahead and update that myself.
And then you also want to check
that you have npm installed.
So, you type npm dash v,
that'll tell you what version of npm you have installed.
As long as you have something greater than 10 and six,
it might be version 100 by the time you watch these videos,
again, it doesn't matter, doesn't mean this is out of date
or anything like that.
These versions change every couple months
and they go up a whole version bump so don't sweat that.
If you're on Windows,
the terminal on Windows is called the Command Prompt.
You can go to start, all programs,
accessories and open up the Command Prompt.
There's also a nice little terminal called Cmder
that I like to use on Windows.
If you know what WSL, Windows Subsystem Linux is,
go ahead and use that,
although that has absolutely nothing to do with this course.
And none of the stuff
that you use today really depends on that.
That's totally not necessary.
I wanna avoid going down any rabbit holes
in terms of complex tooling
and best ways to do things.
You just need to have it installed
and it's going to be working.
Let's just do some command line basics really quickly,
if you're not familiar with working in the command line,
there's a couple little commands
that you need to know
in order to run our JavaScript and to run our bundles.
So first is CD.
That means change directory.
If I take a look here, if you type ls dash l
that will list out...
all of your directories.
If you're on Windows, you type dir
and that will give you a list of your directories,
and you see I have a exercises directory,
if I want to get into that I just type cd space exercises.
And then that will put me into it.
You can type pwd
and that will give you the print working directory.
If you ever want to know where you are somewhere,
that will give you,
not all terminals are going to show you
this nice little thing.
If you want to know how to get all this setup,
I have a commandlinepoweruser.com.
Can't spell. There we go.
This is a pretty quick course you can go through
that gets you up and running to get this cool prompt
that I have, again, not part of this course,
you can get into that.
Other things you need to know is that,
if I want to go up a level of a directory,
See I just went into that exercise directory,
if I wanna go up a level, I type cd dot dot,
and that will go up a level.
That's on both Windows and on Mac.
And that's pretty much all we need to know right now.
CD changes directory, pwd tells us where we are.
Anything other than that,
we will be reviewing as we need it.
if you want to see if your Node is working,
we already said that you can run no dash v,
but if you just type node,
that will actually give you this little carrot here
and what that does is
it actually brings us into what's called a REPL.
Read, evaluate, what does REPL stand for rebels stand for?
REPL.
Read,
eval,
what does...
Read, evaluate, print, loop.
Who cares what that means?
Essentially, this is the console.
If I were to go into my JavaScript console here
and have like one plus one and gives you two,
it's the same thing here, one plus one equals two.
Sometimes people type in node and then press enter
and then they start typing things like ls and pwb and cd
and it doesn't it says like none of this is defined.
And it's 'cause you're confused that you're actually,
you're in the node console, right here, the node REPL
and you're not actually on the command line anymore.
How do you get back to the command line?
You hit Control+C a couple times
and just kind of mash your hands on the keyboard
a couple of times until you get back
to where it is that you wanted to go.
So that is node.
Other helpful things, Command+K or Command+R,
or CTRL+K, CTRL+R on Windows,
that will clear out your console.
Sometimes if you have a bunch of stuff here,
and you're like, "This is too much."
command+K, clear it out, nice, fresh.
That's what I'm hitting if you wanna,
if you ever see me just clear stuff out.
That works in in Chrome dev tools as well.
I just hit command+K there
and that cleared it all out for me.
I find that to be helpful.
Finally, editor, I highly recommend
you use VS Code for this,
and that's because I think
it's the best editor for writing JavaScript in.
You may have other opinions,
but in terms of tooling for JavaScript,
I think VS Code is the best,
unless you already are very good at JavaScript,
in which case, you're probably not taking this course.
So VS Code, we're going to be looking
at some some extensions that we can use
in order to format our JavaScript appropriately.
Again, if you want to know what theme
or any of the extensions that I'm using,
please go to wesbos.com/uses
and that will have a list
of all of the different software and hardware
and color scheme, cobalt2 color scheme, for VS Code,
all of that stuff that I'm using,
if the website ever loads.
Other than that, that's everything we've got going on here.
Let's jump into learning some code.